CSS stands for Cascading Style Sheets

CSS is a styling language that defines layout of HTML documents.

HTML is used for structuring content, and CSS is used for formatting
the structured content.

selector
{
	property: value;
}

Applying CSS
	Method 1: External (optimal)
	
		This is done by linking the external css document in the html 
		head
		<link type='text/css' rel='stylesheet' href='css/style.css' />

	Method 2: Internal (sloppy)
	
		Put style inbetween <style></style> tags in the head of the
		html document.
	
	Method 3: In-Line (frowned-upon
		
		this is just done by setting style as an attribute to the html
		tag.
		<h2 style="width: 33%; color: red;"
	Method 4: Javascript
		You can access html elements in javascript.

Lengths and Percentages
	px: is a unit for pixels
	em: is the unit for a calculated size of font.
	pt: is unit for points usually used in printed media.
	%: is a unit for percentages.

Colors
	either predefined or hex with rgb, #rrggbb

Text Properties
	font-family: the font
	font-size: the font size
	font-weight: bold or normal font weight
	font-style: italic or normal font style.

Text Properties
	text-decoration: underline, does what you would expect
	text-decoration: overline, places a line above the text.
	text-decoration: line-trhough.
	text-decoration: none, no line (to remove underline from links)
	
	text-transformation: capatilze, turns the first letter of every word
						 into uppercase
	text-transformation: uppercase, turns everything into uppercase
	text-transformation: lowercase, turns everything into lowercase.
	text-transformation: none, nothing!

Spacing
	letter-spacing: spacing between letters
	word-spacing: spacing between words
	
	line-height: sets the height of the lines without adjusting font.
	text-align: aligns text left, right, center or justify.
	text-indent: will indent the first line of a paragraph.

Positioning
	The position property is used to define whether a box is absolute,
	relative, static, or fixed.
	
	static: is the default value and renders a box in the normal order
			of things, as they appear in the HTML.

