The borderless switched network

Can be split into: Core, Distribution, and Access.

Core is the core backbone
Distribution is the connection between core and access
Access is the connection to the user or, connection into or outside
	the network.  Fundamentals of network design have changed from flat to hierarchical 
A switched LAN allows:
	more flexibility
	traffic management
	quality of service
	additional security
	support for wireless networking and connectivity
	support for new technologies, such as ip telephony and mobility
		services

LAN Design
	Switch selection based off of:
		fixed, or modular
		stackable, or non-stackable
		thickness of the switch (rack units) | switch form factors
	Business Considerations
		Cost-is dependent on features
		Port-Density-Needs to support appropiate number of devices
		Power-Using PoE to power other things
			  Or redundant power supplies
		Reliability- Needs to provide continuous access
		Port-Speed-concerns speed provided to end-users
		Frame Buffers- Important if there are congested ports to servers
		Scalability- Should provide opportunity for growth
	
Fixed Configuration Switches
	Non upgradable.

Modular Configuration Switches
	Are upgradable
	Can have different size chasis for more upgrades etc.
		Can have added line cards and are expansion slots like pc would
		have
Stackable Configuration Switches
	Switches that can be stacked and connected using a cable
		This stacking technology fron cisco is called StackWise
			Allows up to nine switches
	Stacked switches effectively opperate as a single larger switch
	Stacked switches are good where bandwidth and fault tolerance are
		needed but it is too costly to implement a modular switch.
	Can be daisy chained, but also cross-connected
		if cross-connected then the network can recover quickly if a
			single switch fails.
	Stacked switches use a special port for the stacking cables.
	Stackpower technology allows power sharing among stack members.

The Switched Enviroment
	The concept of switching is universal and can apply to these fields
		LANS, WANS, PSTN(public switched telephone network)

Switching is a decision based on two criteria
	Ingress Port (Where the frame enters the device on a port)
	Destination address 
		This is the destination MAC address of the frames

	The switch looks up the destination port in it's MASTER SWITCHING
		TABLE

Switches build MAC Table using CAM(content addressable memory) table
	CAM is a special type of memory used in high-speed searching
		applications.
	This table is built by recording each address of each device
		connected to it.
	
When a switch recieves a frame with a destination address not in its 
	master switching table.
	The switch forwards the packet out to all ports but the ingress por
		This is called flooding.
	When the device responds to the flood, the switch adds its address
		to the MAC address table.
	
In a network with many interconnected switches, the MAC address table
	contains multiple MAC addresses for a single port connected to the
	other switches.

In the early 90s the bridge was implemented to cope with slowing
	traffic and were meant to help reduce collision domains.
	
	Bridges have now been replaced by switches with the new
		advances in integrated circuit technologies.
		
		Switches use ASICS (application-specific-integrated-
			curcuits.
	
	the coming of ASICS allowed for the method of switching called
		store-and-forward. The original method was called cut-through.

Store-And-Forward Switching:
	
	Cisco's primary switching method
		
	This method works by waiting for the entire packet to
		be recieved, and then it error checks it and then forwards.
	
	
		Error Checking: 
			
			Done after entire frame is recieved.
			
			Switch error checks using the FCS (Frame-Check-Sequence)
				against its own FCS calculations.

				This is the last value in the frame.

			If the frame is error free, then it is forwarded, if not,
				then the frame is dropped. 

		Automatic Buffering:
		
			Ingress port buffering is when there is a mismatch in speeds
				and the incoming frame needs to be stored so it can be 
				forwarded to the port with the different speed.

			Since store-and-forward buffers every frame to check it, it
				is automatically buffered.

Cut-Through Switching:	

	The cut-through method works by initiating forwarding process as
		soon as the destination and ingress port are identified.
	
	Allows forwarding to start sooner than store-and-forward.

	Ideal for HPC ( high performance computing ) where 
		process-to-process latencies of 10 microseconds or less.
	
	Rapid Frame Forwarding: 
		
		Checks the first 14 bytes for the destination MAC.
			Although, it can decide if it needs to check an additional
				40 bytes in order to perform more sophisticated 
				functions at layer 3 or 4.

		Forwarding can begin as soon as the destination MAC has been
			looked up in the MAC address table.	
	
		Invalid frames are still forwarded, so if there is a high
			failure rate, the network can be congested with invalid 
			frames.
	
	Fragment Free:
		
		Fragment free is a modified form of cut-through switching.

		The switch waits for the collision window (64 bytes) to pass
			before forwarding the frame.
			
			This is checked up to the data field.
				
		No latency increase from cut-through, and has a form of error
			checking.
	
Switching Domains:
	
	Collision Domains:

		Physical layer.

		Also known as Ethernet Segments, LAN Segments
		
		Ethernet Segments that are hub based devices must take turns
			transmitting to avoid collision.	
		
		Collision domains can be segmented by using switches or routers
			to go up to the network access layer in the TCP/IP model
			
			Each new segment is its own collision domain.
	
			Another name for this segmentation is microsegmentation.
	
	Broadcast Domains:
	
		Data-Link Layer.

		The broadcast domain, also known s the MAC broadcast domain,
			is the domain where broadcasts will be recieved.

		Broadcast domains can be segmented with network layer devices,
			such as a router.

		A broadcast frame has all 1's in the MAC Address destination.
			
			All 1's in the MAC address field is recieved by all devices
				in the broadcast domain.
			
			When a switch receives a broadcast frame it forwards it out
				of all of the ports except the ingress port.

			Broadcasts are necessary for locating other devices, but
				can take up network bandwidth as they are ineffcient.

Switch benefits:
	
	Allow segmentation of collision domains, as each port is its own
		collision domain to provide full bandwidth to the device.

	Provide full-duplex communication between devices.
		
		Full-Duplex means that the device can send and recieve at the
			same time.
		
		Full-Duplex is required for 1 GB/s and higher speeds.

	Switches interconnect collision domains.

	High port density = lots of devices.

	Large frame buffers alleviates congested ports.

	Multiple port speeds, the flexibility of the switch allows multiple
		speeds.

	Fast internal switching, fast internal forwarding capabilities using
		fast internal busses or shared memory.

	Low per-port cost, higher-port density for a lower cast.
